### Diversity and Inclusion

In this day and age, power, inclusion, empowerment, and how minorities are treated and the wide-ranging span of consequences is front and center. These three articles [Silicon Valley’s gender gap...](https://qz.com/911737/silicon-valleys-gender-gap-is-the-result-of-computer-game-marketing-20-years-ago) [Diversity in Tech](https://informationisbeautiful.net/visualizations/diversity-in-tech/), and [Why diversity matters to your tech company](https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/columnist/2015/07/21/why-diversity-matters-your-tech-company/30419871/) each have something to say about it's reasons, what it looks like today, and why it's better to bring more voices to the table.

It's an important conversation, much bigger than this reading note. I fully agree that work needs to continue in allowing the tech industry to be available to everyone. The "boy's club" approach that is prevalent isn't the best for employees, or if we want to get business-like for shareholders either, as it's evident that a wider perspective brings better results. The knock-on effect of advertising computer & video games to boys was likely not a first-priority for the market at the time, but I can definitely had that consequence. I believe that as video games have become more widespread, and women/females are playing more video games in general, and more video games are being created with them in mind (in video games in general, and specific), that that will become less and less a factor. That, and every so often, the boy's club of Silicon Valley gets in trouble because the harrassment/assault/creation of a toxic environment can no longer be covered up and one of them gets (golden) parachuted out, so it is slowly - too slowly, some might say - changing.
